now the Israeli Army is trying to calm
fears after a false alarm sent people
Nationwide scrambling for
shelter warning sirens rang out across
Northern Israel and flares were fired at
the border as people across the country
were told to seek shelter over a
possible aerial infiltration from
Lebanon the Army now says the Panic was
caused by human error alaz need is in
West Jerusalem H we started talking
about this with you maybe some some 90
minutes ago do you want to recap
everything that happened in the last
hour and a
half yeah certainly we what what we
first got is actually this red alert app
that most people here in Israel have on
their phones that was pinging constantly
about uh possible hostile aerial
intrusion
in different areas along uh the northern
border of Israel with Lebanon and then
we started hearing uh different
statements coming out from different
bodies uh the most important one was
coming out from the head of the Regional
Council in Northern Israel and he was
talking about 15 to 20 paragliders who
would have flown across that border and
landed in Northern Israel uh and he was
saying that those there were uh Fighters
or people on those paragliders uh the
Army though wasn't saying much except uh
calling on people living in those areas
to go to the shelters to lock themselves
in and to make sure that they have
enough supplies to stay for a long time
inside those shelters and as you said
SEL this really caused a wave of panic
in all that North area of the country
among two million people who live in
those areas who scramble to go to those
shelters but the Army was saying that it
was there could possibly be an
infiltration while the head of the
Regional Council was continuing to say
that um it there W there actually was an
infiltration eventually the Army came
out with a statement saying that the
soldiers had been combing that area that
they haven't found anything that they
haven't been any Rockets launch there
haven't been any infiltration or
anything else so we actually reached out
to the spokesperson of the Regional
Council there and all we got as an
answer was a text message saying you
heard what the spokesman uh spokesperson
of the army said I have nothing to add
and and this really comes to the heart
or just a demonstration about the level
of anxiety the level of fear that has
reach really gripped this country uh
since this war started a few days
agoa can I get you back uh on our
earlier track to our earlier
conversation which was about the
politics in this because there was a
significant development today we know
how politically this is all going to be
structured around Benjamin Netanyahu the
Prime Minister now um You Were
explaining to us that they now have a
this sort of two-tier political system
with a a political Unity governments and
a war time
cabinet yes and actually what we were
talking about just now all this state of
alert H happened shortly after there was
this announcement that finally Benny
Gans who's the head of the national
Unity party and opposition party had
reached an agreement with prime minister
Benjamin Netanyahu about forming this
emergency Unity uh government and it's
as you said it's in two forums two
committees you have the war cabinet
where you would have the defense
minister yav Galant prime minister
Benjamin Netanyahu and Benny Gans the
head of the national Unity party who is
also a former Chief of Staff a former
Minister of Defense you have other two
people who are also on that uh on that
uh cabinet who are uh Danny eisenkot who
is a former Chief of Staff as well and
Ro Ron dmer who is a former uh Israeli
ambassador to Washington they are there
as observers now that cabinet is in
charge of taking decisions on how to
proceed with this war whether it is in
Gaza or whether things would could
expand on the northern border then you
have the larger uh government and that
is called the political security
government that includes the members of
the ruling ruling Coalition and with
them Benny Gans and other members of his
National Unity party now their role is
to uh from what we understand is yes to
continue to be part of this uh emergency
government to deal with all other
aspects of what is that what is
happening during this current War now
this emergency Unity government is not
allowed to legislate or to take any
decision that is not pertaining to the
war and to this uh crisis nesset what
part of the deal is that knesses is not
allowed to pass any legislation that has
uh that is unrelated to this war until
this war ended but we spoke to some
Israelis and many of them said that they
were actually uh satisfied that they had
reached an agreement because at this
particular moment the is they the the
leaders of this country the political
leaders of this country should put all
the divisions aside and they're deeply
divid and those divisions were all the
way up to the first day of this war all
the way up to when Hamas crossed that
border fence between Gaza and Southern
Israel and then carried out those
attacks well people here want those
aside want to see these two main
political leaders of this country
standing together and trying to bring
this country steer this country towards
the end of the war to bring back
security to this country that's H
abdulhamid reporting from West Jerusalem
thank you very much